                        FORMAT OF MAIN BODY OF REPORT
           Each major Chapter e.g. INTRODUCTION should start on a separate page.
         Note: Numbering of the main body of the Report to follow as stated below where
                                         Applicable
1.0 CHAPTER ONE: GENERAL INTRODUCTION

                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preliminary Pages

CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background of the Study
Describes the prevailing situation at the global, national and local levels (broad perspective to narrow
perspectives). Explains what the study is all of the about. Should arouse the interest of the readers.


1.2 Statement of the Problem
    The researcher has to identify the specific problem existing within the specific area of interest which
    his research will seek to address. The statement should provide the researcher with considerable
    direction in pursuing the study.


1.3 Objectives
           1.3.1 General Objective
        This refers to the general aim for wanting to carry out the study. The purpose should not be a
reproduction of the title, but should be a summary statement of the reason why the study is being
proposed.E.g To develop a mobile application system for patients health record management for…….


          1.3.2 Specific Objectives
        These are finer statements of what is to be accomplished, which emanate from the purpose of the
study. They specify more directly what the researcher is going to do. While the purpose is a general
statement of the aim of the study, the objectives must be specific. Should state properly and clearly the
general and specific objectives that should jive with the research questions. Ideally, the research objectives
should be measurable, attainable and feasible.e.g To Investigate , To develop, To implement , To test, or
To validate
          1.3.3 Research Questions
        The research questions must be stated in question form and in a way that they are synchronized
with the research objectives.
1.3 Scope of the study
2   geographical scope defines the location or site of the study.; the content/system scope defines the
    factors and variables to be considered.


1.5 Significance of the Study
                 This provides the justification of the study. It spells out who the probable beneficiaries of
the study findings might be (country, government, local community, agency, curriculum developers,
researchers etc.), and how they might benefit. It also shows how the research findings will contribute to
general knowledge and what its impact on development towards better life is. It should reflect on knowledge
creation, as well as on technological or socio-economic value to the community.

2.0 LITERATURE REVIEW
    i. The Literature Review should start with an introduction which specifies the subtitles of content
       covered.
   ii. In this section of Literature Review, student should demonstrate evidence of understanding of
       current research on the subject under investigation and show clear gaps in knowledge that will be
       discussed.
 iii.  Appropriate themes for this chapter can be developed using the specific objectives of the study.
       Thus, relevant themes to the study and those derived from related literature including the theoretical
       framework guiding the study should be discussed here.
  iv.  The literature review should be consistent with the requirements of the title (internal consistency)
       and aspects of the introduction e.g. background to the study.
   v.  The literature review should be properly cited, paraphrased and critiqued.
  vi.  The Literature review should have a summary of identified gaps in the reviewed literature.
 vii.  Unless for archival studies, 80% of the references used should be less than 10 years old.
viii.  Endeavour to use current refereed journals and periodicals as much as possible.
  ix.  Review related literature which are inline with your topic
   x.  Identify the gaps in the related topics which you would like to address.

Sections should include:
            a. 2.1 Introduction
            b. 2.2 Related Studies (in line with your topic and specific objectives)
            c. 2.3 Gaps identified

3.0 CHAPTER (THREE): METHODOLOGY
The Methodology section should start with an introduction which specifies the subtitles of content covered.
This Chapter highlights methodological details appropriate to the study. They include:
3.1 Research Approach (State and justify the chosen design).
3.2 Target Population (Describe the target population and give figures and a source).
3.3 Sampling Techniques (Explain the Sampling techniques used for the study)
3.4 Sample Size (explain the sample size-(unit of analysis) and explain how it
3.5 System Development Methodologies
3.5.1 Data Collection Methods
3.5.2 System Design and Interface Techniques
3.5.3 Testing
3.5.4 Tools for Implementation
3.6 Logistical and Ethical Considerations (If any)

CHAPTER FOUR:           SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND DESIGN

CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION, TESTING AND EVALUATION

CHAPTER SIX: CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION


7. 0 REFERENCES
References should be single-spaced and listed alphabetically in the reference list. For citations within the
text, the format of author and year of publication is recommended. Use the latest American Psychology
Association (APA) style of referencing for IT students and IEEE for Computer Science Students.
APA
 Sayre, Rebecca K., Devercelli, A.E., Neuman, M.J., &Wodon, Q. (2015). Investment in early childhood
     development: Review of the World Bank’s recent experience. doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0403-8
 Fernández-Manzanal, R., Rodríguez-Barreiro, L., &Carrasquer, J. (2007). Evaluation of environmental
     attitudes: Analysis and results of a scale applied to university students. Science Education, 91(6), 988–
     1009. doi:10.1002/sce.20218

IEEE
[1] M. Abramowitz and I. A. Stegun, Eds., Handbook of Mathematical Functions (Applied Mathematics
Series 55). Washington, DC: NBS, 1964, pp. 32-33.
[2] M. Gorkii, “Optimal design,” Dokl. Akad. Nauk SSSR, vol. 12, pp. 111-122, 1961 (Transl.: in L.
Pontryagin, Ed., The Mathematical Theory of Optimal Processes. New York: Interscience, 1962, ch. 2, sec.
3, pp. 127-135).

7.0 APPENDICES
They will include The budget and work plan. These must be numbered sequentially e.g. I.II,etc. or A, B,
etc
